README.md, before:

# AWS CI/CD Pipeline Setup Guide

This guide will help you deploy a Python web application to AWS with automatic deployments from GitHub. Every time you push code to GitHub, it will automatically build and deploy to your EC2 server.

---

## 📋 What You'll Need

- A computer with internet connection
- An AWS account (free tier is fine)
- A GitHub account
- About 30-45 minutes

---

## 🚀 Step 1: Install Required Software

### 1.1 Install Terraform

Terraform is the tool that creates AWS resources automatically.

**Windows:**
1. Download Terraform from: https://www.terraform.io/downloads
2. Extract the `.zip` file to `C:\terraform`
3. Add to Windows PATH:
   - Press `Windows Key`, search for "Environment Variables"
   - Click "Edit the system environment variables"
   - Click "Environment Variables" button
   - Under "System variables", find and select "Path", click "Edit"
   - Click "New" and add: `C:\terraform`
   - Click "OK" on all windows
4. Open a **new** PowerShell window and verify:
   ```powershell
   terraform version
   ```

**Mac:**
```bash
brew install terraform
```

**Linux:**
```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install terraform
```

### 1.2 Install Git (if not already installed)

**Windows:** Download from https://git-scm.com/download/win

**Mac:**
```bash
brew install git
```

**Linux:**
```bash
sudo apt-get install git
```

Verify installation:
```bash
git --version
```

---

## 🔐 Step 2: Set Up AWS Credentials

### 2.1 Create an AWS Access Key

1. Log in to your AWS Console: https://console.aws.amazon.com
2. Click your username (top-right) → **Security credentials**
3. Scroll down to **Access keys** section
4. Click **Create access key**
5. Select **Command Line Interface (CLI)**
6. Check the confirmation box and click **Next**
7. Click **Create access key**
8. **IMPORTANT:** Copy both:
   - Access key ID (looks like: `AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE`)
   - Secret access key (looks like: `wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY`)

### 2.2 Configure AWS Credentials on Your Computer

**Option A: Using AWS Credentials File (RECOMMENDED)**

1. Create the `.aws` folder in your home directory:

   **Windows (PowerShell):**
   ```powershell
   New-Item -Path "$env:USERPROFILE\.aws" -ItemType Directory -Force
   ```

   **Mac/Linux:**
   ```bash
   mkdir -p ~/.aws
   ```

2. Create a `credentials` file:

   **Windows (PowerShell):**
   ```powershell
   notepad "$env:USERPROFILE\.aws\credentials"
   ```

   **Mac/Linux:**
   ```bash
   nano ~/.aws/credentials
   ```

3. Add your credentials (replace with your actual keys):
   ```
   [default]
   aws_access_key_id = AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
   aws_secret_access_key = wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
   ```

4. Save and close the file
   - **Windows:** Click File → Save, then close Notepad
   - **Mac/Linux:** Press `Ctrl+O`, `Enter`, then `Ctrl+X`

**Option B: Using Environment Variables**

**Windows (PowerShell):**
```powershell
$env:AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE"
$env:AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY"
$env:AWS_DEFAULT_REGION="us-east-1"
```

**Mac/Linux (Bash):**
```bash
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE"
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY"
export AWS_DEFAULT_REGION="us-east-1"
```

---

## 🔑 Step 3: Create an EC2 Key Pair

This allows you to connect to your server if needed.

1. Go to AWS Console: https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2
2. Make sure you're in the **us-east-1** region (check top-right corner)
3. In the left menu, click **Key Pairs** (under "Network & Security")
4. Click **Create key pair**
5. Name it: `ec2-key-pair`
6. Key pair type: **RSA**
7. Private key format: `.pem` (Mac/Linux) or `.ppk` (Windows)
8. Click **Create key pair**
9. Save the downloaded file in a safe place

---

## 📁 Step 4: Fork and Clone This Repository

### 4.1 Fork the Repository

1. Go to: https://github.com/kouong/aws-group-yde
2. Click the **Fork** button (top-right)
3. This creates a copy in your GitHub account

### 4.2 Clone Your Fork

```bash
git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/aws-group-yde.git
cd aws-group-yde
```

Replace `YOUR-USERNAME` with your actual GitHub username.

### 4.3 Update the Repository Reference

Open `infra/main.tf` and find line 635:
```terraform
FullRepositoryId     = "kouong/aws-group-yde"
```

Change it to:
```terraform
FullRepositoryId     = "YOUR-USERNAME/aws-group-yde"
```

Save the file.

---

## 🏗️ Step 5: Deploy Infrastructure to AWS

### 5.1 Initialize Terraform

Open PowerShell/Terminal in the project folder:

```bash
cd infra
terraform init
```

This downloads necessary Terraform plugins. You should see "Terraform has been successfully initialized!"

### 5.2 Preview What Will Be Created

```bash
terraform plan
```

This shows all the AWS resources that will be created. Review the output to see:
- EC2 instance (your web server)
- CodePipeline (automation pipeline)
- CodeBuild (builds your app)
- CodeDeploy (deploys your app)
- IAM roles and security groups

### 5.3 Create AWS Resources

```bash
terraform apply
```

- Type `yes` when prompted
- Wait 3-5 minutes for resources to be created
- **IMPORTANT:** Copy the `ec2_public_ip` shown at the end (you'll need this later)

---

## 🔗 Step 6: Connect GitHub to AWS

Terraform created a connection, but you must approve it manually.

1. Go to AWS Console: https://console.aws.amazon.com
2. Search for **Developer Tools** → **Connections**
3. Find `12-weeks-aws-github-con-2025`
4. Status will show **Pending**
5. Click on it, then click **Update pending connection**
6. Click **Install a new app** (or select existing GitHub app)
7. Log in to GitHub if prompted
8. Select your forked repository
9. Click **Connect**
10. Status should change to **Available** ✅

---

## 🎉 Step 7: Test Your Pipeline

### 7.1 Trigger the Pipeline

Make a small change to test automatic deployment:

```bash
cd ..
echo "# Test Change" >> frontend/app.py
git add .
git commit -m "Test pipeline"
git push origin main
```

### 7.2 Watch the Pipeline

1. Go to AWS Console → **CodePipeline**
2. Click **12weeks-aws-workshop-pipeline-2025**
3. Watch the three stages:
   - **Source** (gets code from GitHub) - ~30 seconds
   - **Build** (packages your app) - ~2-3 minutes
   - **Deploy** (deploys to EC2) - ~2-3 minutes

Total time: 5-7 minutes

### 7.3 View Your Application

Once all stages show ✅ **Succeeded**:

Open your browser and go to:
```
http://YOUR-EC2-PUBLIC-IP
```

Replace `YOUR-EC2-PUBLIC-IP` with the IP from Step 5.3.

You should see your Python Flask application! 🎊

---

## 🔄 Making Changes

Every time you push code to GitHub, the pipeline automatically:
1. Detects the change
2. Builds your application
3. Deploys to your EC2 server

Try it:
```bash
# Edit frontend/app.py - change some text
git add .
git commit -m "Update app"
git push origin main
```

Wait 5-7 minutes, then refresh your browser to see the changes!

---

## 🧹 Cleaning Up (Delete Everything)

To avoid AWS charges, delete all resources when done:

```bash
cd infra
terraform destroy
```

Type `yes` when prompted. This removes everything from AWS.

---

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Issue: "terraform: command not found"
- **Solution:** Restart your terminal after installing Terraform

### Issue: "Error: No valid credential sources found"
- **Solution:** Double-check Step 2.2. Make sure credentials are saved correctly

### Issue: EC2 instance not accessible
- **Solution:** Wait 2-3 minutes after deployment. EC2 needs time to install CodeDeploy agent

### Issue: Pipeline fails at Deploy stage
- **Solution:** 
  1. Make sure you completed Step 6 (GitHub connection)
  2. Check CodeDeploy logs in AWS Console

### Issue: "A resource with that name already exists"
- **Solution:** Someone else used the same S3 bucket name. Edit `infra/main.tf` line 339:
  ```terraform
  bucket = "12weeks-aws-workshop-2025-bucket-YOUR-INITIALS"
  ```

---

## 📚 What Gets Created in AWS

| Resource | Purpose | Free Tier? |
|----------|---------|------------|
| EC2 Instance (t2.micro) | Your web server | ✅ Yes (750 hours/month) |
| S3 Bucket | Stores deployment files | ✅ Yes (5GB) |
| CodePipeline | Automates deployments | ❌ No ($1/month) |
| CodeBuild | Builds your application | ✅ Yes (100 min/month) |
| CodeDeploy | Deploys to EC2 | ✅ Yes (free for EC2) |

**Estimated Cost:** $1-2/month (mostly CodePipeline)

---

## 🎓 Learn More

- **Terraform Docs:** https://www.terraform.io/docs
- **AWS CodePipeline:** https://aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/
- **AWS Free Tier:** https://aws.amazon.com/free/

---

## ✅ Architecture Overview

```
GitHub Repository
      ↓
   [Push Code]
      ↓
CodePipeline (Orchestrator)
      ↓
  ┌───┴───┬─────────┐
  │       │         │
Source → Build → Deploy
  │       │         │
GitHub CodeBuild CodeDeploy
  │       │         │
  └───────┴─────→ EC2
                    │
              [Your App Running]
                    │
              http://your-ip
```

---

## 📝 Project Structure

```
aws-group-yde/
├── frontend/           # Your Python Flask application
│   ├── app.py         # Main application file
│   ├── appspec.yml    # Deployment instructions for CodeDeploy
│   └── scripts/       # Deployment lifecycle scripts
├── infra/             # Terraform infrastructure code
│   ├── main.tf        # Main infrastructure definitions
│   ├── output.tf      # Output values (like EC2 IP)
│   └── variables.tf   # Configurable variables
└── buildspec.yaml     # Build instructions for CodeBuild
```

---

## 🆘 Need Help?

If you get stuck:
1. Check the Troubleshooting section above
2. Review AWS CloudWatch logs for detailed error messages
3. Make sure all prerequisites are installed correctly
4. Verify your AWS credentials are configured properly

---

**Happy Deploying! 🚀**

Commit message:

Add Scoop installation option for Terraform
Added note about using Scoop for Terraform installation.

README.md, after:

# AWS CI/CD Pipeline Setup Guide

This guide will help you deploy a Python web application to AWS with automatic deployments from GitHub. Every time you push code to GitHub, it will automatically build and deploy to your EC2 server.

---

## 📋 What You'll Need

- A computer with internet connection
- An AWS account (free tier is fine)
- A GitHub account
- About 30-45 minutes

---

## 🚀 Step 1: Install Required Software

### 1.1 Install Terraform

Terraform is the tool that creates AWS resources automatically.

**Windows:**
1. Download Terraform from: https://www.terraform.io/downloads
2. Extract the `.zip` file to `C:\terraform`
3. Add to Windows PATH:
   - Press `Windows Key`, search for "Environment Variables"
   - Click "Edit the system environment variables"
   - Click "Environment Variables" button
   - Under "System variables", find and select "Path", click "Edit"
   - Click "New" and add: `C:\terraform`
   - Click "OK" on all windows
4. Open a **new** PowerShell window and verify:
   ```powershell
   terraform version
   ```
   Notes: Alternatively you can use scoop for installing terraform https://scoop.sh/#/

**Mac:**
```bash
brew install terraform
```

**Linux:**
```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install terraform
```

### 1.2 Install Git (if not already installed)

**Windows:** Download from https://git-scm.com/download/win

**Mac:**
```bash
brew install git
```

**Linux:**
```bash
sudo apt-get install git
```

Verify installation:
```bash
git --version
```

---

## 🔐 Step 2: Set Up AWS Credentials

### 2.1 Create an AWS Access Key

1. Log in to your AWS Console: https://console.aws.amazon.com
2. Click your username (top-right) → **Security credentials**
3. Scroll down to **Access keys** section
4. Click **Create access key**
5. Select **Command Line Interface (CLI)**
6. Check the confirmation box and click **Next**
7. Click **Create access key**
8. **IMPORTANT:** Copy both:
   - Access key ID (looks like: `AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE`)
   - Secret access key (looks like: `wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY`)

### 2.2 Configure AWS Credentials on Your Computer

**Option A: Using AWS Credentials File (RECOMMENDED)**

1. Create the `.aws` folder in your home directory:

   **Windows (PowerShell):**
   ```powershell
   New-Item -Path "$env:USERPROFILE\.aws" -ItemType Directory -Force
   ```

   **Mac/Linux:**
   ```bash
   mkdir -p ~/.aws
   ```

2. Create a `credentials` file:

   **Windows (PowerShell):**
   ```powershell
   notepad "$env:USERPROFILE\.aws\credentials"
   ```

   **Mac/Linux:**
   ```bash
   nano ~/.aws/credentials
   ```

3. Add your credentials (replace with your actual keys):
   ```
   [default]
   aws_access_key_id = AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
   aws_secret_access_key = wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
   ```

4. Save and close the file
   - **Windows:** Click File → Save, then close Notepad
   - **Mac/Linux:** Press `Ctrl+O`, `Enter`, then `Ctrl+X`

**Option B: Using Environment Variables**

**Windows (PowerShell):**
```powershell
$env:AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE"
$env:AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY"
$env:AWS_DEFAULT_REGION="us-east-1"
```

**Mac/Linux (Bash):**
```bash
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE"
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY"
export AWS_DEFAULT_REGION="us-east-1"
```

---

## 🔑 Step 3: Create an EC2 Key Pair

This allows you to connect to your server if needed.

1. Go to AWS Console: https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2
2. Make sure you're in the **us-east-1** region (check top-right corner)
3. In the left menu, click **Key Pairs** (under "Network & Security")
4. Click **Create key pair**
5. Name it: `ec2-key-pair`
6. Key pair type: **RSA**
7. Private key format: `.pem` (Mac/Linux) or `.ppk` (Windows)
8. Click **Create key pair**
9. Save the downloaded file in a safe place

---

## 📁 Step 4: Fork and Clone This Repository

### 4.1 Fork the Repository

1. Go to: https://github.com/kouong/aws-group-yde
2. Click the **Fork** button (top-right)
3. This creates a copy in your GitHub account

### 4.2 Clone Your Fork

```bash
git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/aws-group-yde.git
cd aws-group-yde
```

Replace `YOUR-USERNAME` with your actual GitHub username.

### 4.3 Update the Repository Reference

Open `infra/main.tf` and find line 635:
```terraform
FullRepositoryId     = "kouong/aws-group-yde"
```

Change it to:
```terraform
FullRepositoryId     = "YOUR-USERNAME/aws-group-yde"
```

Save the file.

---

## 🏗️ Step 5: Deploy Infrastructure to AWS

### 5.1 Initialize Terraform

Open PowerShell/Terminal in the project folder:

```bash
cd infra
terraform init
```

This downloads necessary Terraform plugins. You should see "Terraform has been successfully initialized!"

### 5.2 Preview What Will Be Created

```bash
terraform plan
```

This shows all the AWS resources that will be created. Review the output to see:
- EC2 instance (your web server)
- CodePipeline (automation pipeline)
- CodeBuild (builds your app)
- CodeDeploy (deploys your app)
- IAM roles and security groups

### 5.3 Create AWS Resources

```bash
terraform apply
```

- Type `yes` when prompted
- Wait 3-5 minutes for resources to be created
- **IMPORTANT:** Copy the `ec2_public_ip` shown at the end (you'll need this later)

---

## 🔗 Step 6: Connect GitHub to AWS

Terraform created a connection, but you must approve it manually.

1. Go to AWS Console: https://console.aws.amazon.com
2. Search for **Developer Tools** → **Connections**
3. Find `12-weeks-aws-github-con-2025`
4. Status will show **Pending**
5. Click on it, then click **Update pending connection**
6. Click **Install a new app** (or select existing GitHub app)
7. Log in to GitHub if prompted
8. Select your forked repository
9. Click **Connect**
10. Status should change to **Available** ✅

---

## 🎉 Step 7: Test Your Pipeline

### 7.1 Trigger the Pipeline

Make a small change to test automatic deployment:

```bash
cd ..
echo "# Test Change" >> frontend/app.py
git add .
git commit -m "Test pipeline"
git push origin main
```

### 7.2 Watch the Pipeline

1. Go to AWS Console → **CodePipeline**
2. Click **12weeks-aws-workshop-pipeline-2025**
3. Watch the three stages:
   - **Source** (gets code from GitHub) - ~30 seconds
   - **Build** (packages your app) - ~2-3 minutes
   - **Deploy** (deploys to EC2) - ~2-3 minutes

Total time: 5-7 minutes

### 7.3 View Your Application

Once all stages show ✅ **Succeeded**:

Open your browser and go to:
```
http://YOUR-EC2-PUBLIC-IP
```

Replace `YOUR-EC2-PUBLIC-IP` with the IP from Step 5.3.

You should see your Python Flask application! 🎊

---

## 🔄 Making Changes

Every time you push code to GitHub, the pipeline automatically:
1. Detects the change
2. Builds your application
3. Deploys to your EC2 server

Try it:
```bash
# Edit frontend/app.py - change some text
git add .
git commit -m "Update app"
git push origin main
```

Wait 5-7 minutes, then refresh your browser to see the changes!

---

## 🧹 Cleaning Up (Delete Everything)

To avoid AWS charges, delete all resources when done:

```bash
cd infra
terraform destroy
```

Type `yes` when prompted. This removes everything from AWS.

---

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Issue: "terraform: command not found"
- **Solution:** Restart your terminal after installing Terraform

### Issue: "Error: No valid credential sources found"
- **Solution:** Double-check Step 2.2. Make sure credentials are saved correctly

### Issue: EC2 instance not accessible
- **Solution:** Wait 2-3 minutes after deployment. EC2 needs time to install CodeDeploy agent

### Issue: Pipeline fails at Deploy stage
- **Solution:** 
  1. Make sure you completed Step 6 (GitHub connection)
  2. Check CodeDeploy logs in AWS Console

### Issue: "A resource with that name already exists"
- **Solution:** Someone else used the same S3 bucket name. Edit `infra/main.tf` line 339:
  ```terraform
  bucket = "12weeks-aws-workshop-2025-bucket-YOUR-INITIALS"
  ```

---

## 📚 What Gets Created in AWS

| Resource | Purpose | Free Tier? |
|----------|---------|------------|
| EC2 Instance (t2.micro) | Your web server | ✅ Yes (750 hours/month) |
| S3 Bucket | Stores deployment files | ✅ Yes (5GB) |
| CodePipeline | Automates deployments | ❌ No ($1/month) |
| CodeBuild | Builds your application | ✅ Yes (100 min/month) |
| CodeDeploy | Deploys to EC2 | ✅ Yes (free for EC2) |

**Estimated Cost:** $1-2/month (mostly CodePipeline)

---

## 🎓 Learn More

- **Terraform Docs:** https://www.terraform.io/docs
- **AWS CodePipeline:** https://aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/
- **AWS Free Tier:** https://aws.amazon.com/free/

---

## ✅ Architecture Overview

```
GitHub Repository
      ↓
   [Push Code]
      ↓
CodePipeline (Orchestrator)
      ↓
  ┌───┴───┬─────────┐
  │       │         │
Source → Build → Deploy
  │       │         │
GitHub CodeBuild CodeDeploy
  │       │         │
  └───────┴─────→ EC2
                    │
              [Your App Running]
                    │
              http://your-ip
```

---

## 📝 Project Structure

```
aws-group-yde/
├── frontend/           # Your Python Flask application
│   ├── app.py         # Main application file
│   ├── appspec.yml    # Deployment instructions for CodeDeploy
│   └── scripts/       # Deployment lifecycle scripts
├── infra/             # Terraform infrastructure code
│   ├── main.tf        # Main infrastructure definitions
│   ├── output.tf      # Output values (like EC2 IP)
│   └── variables.tf   # Configurable variables
└── buildspec.yaml     # Build instructions for CodeBuild
```

---

## 🆘 Need Help?

If you get stuck:
1. Check the Troubleshooting section above
2. Review AWS CloudWatch logs for detailed error messages
3. Make sure all prerequisites are installed correctly
4. Verify your AWS credentials are configured properly

---

**Happy Deploying! 🚀**
